So let's now make sure that when we edit a product, we don't break our app as we're currently doing
it
if we enter something wrong but that we instead simply validate the input.
Well we are validating it already because I do have all my validators added on the edit product route
in the routes folder but in the controller action that belongs to that, we should also repeat the code
from adding a product,
so all that code where I fetch the errors and then check for the existence of errors, we should grab
that and add it to post edit product as well
and there before we start doing anything,
so before we find a product, before we do that, I will actually use my validation errors if we got any
and then re-render the page with the title of edit product, editing set to true because we are still
in editing mode
but has error also set to true and the product data populated like this, with the values the user entered.
And with that if we save that, that's all we have to do because we're reusing the same view we use before,
so we already got everything we need for outputting the errors
and now if I do leave out that price field, I get title is not defined.
Yeah
here when I try to set the data which I return, here in this post edit product actions, it's all named
updated title, updated price,
so we should be using that.
So let's use updated title here, updated price, updated image url and down there, it's updated desc,
so this was a little mistake on my side,
these values which I extracted were named differently.
Now after renaming that if I try to submit this again, now I simply get invalid value, again
you could override that default message in the way I showed it earlier in this module.
We also see that our image url was lost,
yeah but simply because I assign this incorrectly, I assign the price to the image url and the
other way around.
We should of course do it this way
and now if I update this, now all the data is kept and I still get this error.
So now we get this validation in place too,
now one thing we can do of course we can again set that red border by repeating that same way we did
in the login or in the sign up pages. We get our class here, we conditionally add a css class and
we do the same in edit product,
so there for this input
I do add my class when there is an error for the title input, the same of course for the image url
and all the other inputs, so that does not change. Here for the image url,
I do get this css class here if we do have an error on the image url.
Let's do the same for the price of course
real quick,
split up what we get thus far
and then let's here check the price to see whether we add this invalid css class. And for the text area, it's
exactly the same,
we just need to do one little change to our css code because here I'm checking for description and
so the invalid class might be added to that text area. Thus far in my css code, in the forms css
file,
I only add or change the text color if invalid was added to the input,
now we should simply group another selector or add another selector to that group here
and simply check whether invalid is added either to an input or to a text area
and in both cases give it a red colored border. And with that in place, we now just have to make sure
that we pass these validation errors which we are checking in edit product now, that we passed that
with our responses.
So in the admin controller starting with get add product, there validation errors should be an empty
array because we got no validation errors in this place, for post add product however, here we should have
validation errors which is equal to errors array,
so these errors which we did fetch. For get edit product,
there again I will pass validation errors as an empty array because we have no errors here when we just
get the page
but for post edit product when we do return our error page basically, then I want to set validation
errors back to errors array like this.
And now we do pass that data
so if I now hit update here, you see this is red, only interesting pieces, the title is red as well.
Well that makes sense because here I still have something in my validation set up in the routes folder,
here alphanumeric,
we did remove that if you remember because it should be isString otherwise the whitespace, the blank is
not allowed.
So if I change that and I hit update now, I actually fail and I do fail
because the cast to object id failed for that value.
Now what's wrong here?
Well keep in mind for editing, we need that hidden input where I do have my product ID right
and I do load that product ID when I first render this page
but if I re-rendered it due to a validation error, so due to this render function in my if check here,
well then I only set title, image url, price and description.
I also need to set _id though, otherwise it will render the page
but if I try to submit it that ID will be missing and I need that ID because I extract it here.
So what I should do is I should simply pass _id here and set this equal to prod ID which
I am extracting when this is submitted the first time.
So now I'm passing _id
and this means that if I now go to admin products, edit this and let's say I change the price,
this works
but now let's also do something that breaks validation,
so now this was reloaded due to our failing validation.
And now if I edit this, it will still work because now we also did store and re-render that product ID
and that is how we can add validation and provide a relatively good user experience.